# USI-Calculus-Spring-2016

This is a collection of notes taken from the calculus course given by Prof. Michael Bronstein at USI. Students are free to download the notes and contribute to add content and correct mistakes.

The notes have been written in LaTeX. A pdf can be generated by compiling `calculus_notes.tex`.

PDF files can be downloaded [here](http://atelier.inf.unisi.ch/~zuccha/en/usi.html).


## notes_converter

`notes_converter.cpp` is a program written in c++ that generates more concise notes from `calculus_notes.tex`.

To compile with `gcc`, execute from terminal the following code: `g++ notes_converter.cpp -o notes_converter.cpp`.

To run the program, execute from terminal `./notes_converter ./calculus_notes.tex` is in the same folder.

The program will generate three new files:
- `calculus_notes_definitions.tex`: notes with definitions and theorems, without proofs and examples.
- `calculus_notes_proofs.tex`: notes with definitions, theorems and their proofs. No examples.
- `calculus_notes_examples.tex`: notes with definitions, theorems and examples. No proofs.


## Contributing

If you have a GitHub account and you are a USI student or collaborator, then contact me and I will add you to the collaborators list.

### Editing calculus_notes.tex

To increase code readability, instead of writing long mathematical code, write `\newcommand`s and use those already defined. `\newcommand`s should be defined on top of the .tex document.

When writing a new definition, proposition or theorem, encapsulate it between `%%BEGIN_BLOCK` and `%%END_BLOCK`. Similarly, examples should be encapsulated in `%%BEGIN_EXAMPLE` and `%%END_EXAMPLE`, while proofs should be encapsulated between `%%BEGIN_PROOF` and `%%END_PROOF`. Moreover, examples and proofs should always be inside a block. This allows notes_converter to extract proofs and examples during the parsing.

Example:

```latex
%%BEGIN_BLOCK-----------------------------------------------------------------%%
  \Proposition Comparison test, for $x_n, y_n$ sequences and $x_n \geq 0$
  \begin{enumerate}[label=(\roman*)]
    \item If $\DS \series{x_k} < \infty$ and $\abs{y_n} \leq x_n \DS \Rightarrow
    \series{y_k} < \infty$
    \item If $\DS \series{x_k} = +\infty$ and $x_n \leq y_n \DS \Rightarrow
    \series{y_k} = +\infty$
  \end{enumerate}

%%BEGIN_PROOF
  \Proof
  \begin{enumerate}[label=(\roman*)]
    \item $\DS \abs{\seriec{y_k}} \leq \seriec{\abs{y_k}} \leq \seriec{x_k} <
    \Ep \Rightarrow \series{y_k} < \infty$
    \item $\DS +\infty = \series{x_k} \leq \series{y_k} \Rightarrow \series{y_n}
    = +\infty$
  \end{enumerate}
  \qed
%%END_PROOF

%%BEGIN_EXAMPLE
  \Example $\DS \series \frac{1}{n^2+1} \Rightarrow \series \frac{1}{n^2+1} <
  \series \frac{1}{n^2} < \infty$, the series converges.
%%END_EXAMPLE
%%END_BLOCK-------------------------------------------------------------------%%
```
